### Drug Interaction Discovery with NLP and Machine Learning:

---

__Alexander L. Hayes | Savannah Smith | Devendra Dhami | Sriraam Natarajan__

Using data pulled from rxlist.com, openFDA, PubMed.  This repository contains the scripts for pulling data from each source, and an overview of each are explained below.

---

##### Table of Contents
1. [openFDA](#openfda)
2. [PubMed](#pubmed)
3. [Confidence](#confidence)
4. [Learning}(#learning)

---

1. First ordered list item
2. Another item
⋅⋅* Unordered sub-list. 
1. Actual numbers don't matter, just that it's a number
⋅⋅1. Ordered sub-list
4. And another item.

⋅⋅⋅You can have properly indented paragraphs within list items. Notice the blank line above, and the leading spaces (at least one, but we'll use three here to also align the raw Markdown).

⋅⋅⋅To have a line break without a paragraph, you will need to use two trailing spaces.⋅⋅
⋅⋅⋅Note that this line is separate, but within the same paragraph.⋅⋅
⋅⋅⋅(This is contrary to the typical GFM line break behaviour, where trailing spaces are not required.)

* Unordered list can use asterisks
- Or minuses
+ Or pluses



#####openFDA:
Here you will find several shell scripts for pulling drug names from rxlist.com, pulling labeling information from openFDA, and `fixlist.sh` to fix the list of drugs if `rxdownloader.sh` crashes halfway through.

Running the scripts will take some time (`rxdownloader.sh` took about 6 hours in total to crawl through the database), find out more about the labeling database at [their website.](https://open.fda.gov/api/reference/)

The full set of [extracted data](https://github.iu.edu/hayesall/PMDataDump/tree/master/bashscripts/drugInteractionsFolder) can be found on Alexander's IU GitHub.  Because of its size forking the repository or downloading a .zip is recommended.

1. `builddruglist.sh`

⋅⋅⋅Downloads drug names from rxlist.com⋅⋅
⋅⋅⋅Outputs a text file (`drugslist.txt`)⋅⋅
⋅⋅⋅Arguments can be passed to tweak the output.

⋅⋅* `bash builddruglist.sh         `(by default formats for openFDA)
⋅⋅* `bash builddruglist.sh openFDA `(replace spaces with +AND+)
⋅⋅* `bash builddruglist.sh PubMed  `(replace spaces with +)
⋅⋅* `bash builddruglist.sh Web     `(replace spaces with _)

2. `rxdownloader.sh`

⋅⋅⋅Takes a list of drugs(drugslist.txt)⋅⋅
⋅⋅⋅Queries openFDA for each drug (`fdainteractions.sh`)⋅⋅
⋅⋅⋅Outputs a text file in drugInteractionsFolder/ (i.e. Warfarin+AND+Sodium will be output as drugInteractionsFolder/Warfarin+AND+Sodium-data.txt).

⋅⋅⋅Running it is simple (though time consuming):⋅⋅
⋅⋅⋅`bash rxdownloader.sh`

⋅⋅⋅Additionally, RXDownloader does some sorting for us: it queries all __generic__ drugs, outputs __brand name__ drugs to a separate file (drugInteractionsFolder/BRANDNAMEDRUGS.txt), and separates __unknown drugs__ as well (drugInteractionsFolder/UNKNOWNDRUGS.txt).  Looking up generic drugs also pulls their brand-name equivalents, so redundancy is minimized.  Finally, each step is detailed in a Log file (drugInteractionsFolder/LOG.txt) which outlines what was queried and when it was completed.

⋅⋅⋅If RXDownloader crashes, it can be started up again to continue where it left off.

3. `fixlist.sh`

⋅⋅⋅For error checking: run `bash fixlist.sh` to download a fresh copy of drugslist.txt, check each entry against the LOG file generated by RXDownloader, and remove any entries that are present in both.

---

#####PubMed:

---

#####Confidence:

---

#####Learning:


---
